### What is Spring Boot dependency management?
- Spring Boot dependency management is used to manage dependencies and configuration automatically without you specifying the version for any of that dependencies.
- Spring Boot upgrades all dependencies automatically when you upgrade Spring Boot.

### What Are the Basic Annotations that Spring Boot Offers?
@EnableAutoConfiguration 
@SpringBootApplication – used to denote the main class of a Boot Application. This annotation combines @Configuration, @EnableAutoConfiguration, and @ComponentScan annotations with their default attributes.

### Can we create a non-web application in Spring Boot?
Yes, we can create a non-web application by removing the web dependencies from the classpath along with changing the way Spring Boot creates the application context.

### Is it possible to change the port of the embedded Tomcat server in Spring Boot?
Yes, it is possible. By using the **server.port** in the **application.properties**.

### What is the default port of tomcat in spring boot?
The default port of the tomcat server-id 8080. It can be changed by adding **sever.port** properties in the **application.property** file.

### Can we override or replace the Embedded tomcat server in Spring Boot?
Yes, we can replace the Embedded Tomcat server with any server by using the Starter dependency in the **pom.xml** file. Like you can use spring-boot-starter-jetty as a dependency for using a jetty server in your project.

### Can we disable the default web server in the Spring boot application?
Yes, we can use **application.properties** to configure the web application type i.e **spring.main.web-application-type=none.**

### How to disable a specific auto-configuration class?
You can use exclude attribute of @EnableAutoConfiguration if you want auto-configuration not to apply to any specific class.

```java
//use of exclude
@EnableAutoConfiguration(exclude={className})
```


### Where do we define properties in the Spring Boot application?
You can define both application and Spring boot-related properties into a file called [application.properties.]You can create this file manually or use Spring Initializer to create this file. You don’t need to do any special configuration to instruct Spring Boot to load this file, If it exists in classpath then spring boot automatically loads it and configure itself and the application code accordingly.


### **How to configure hibernate in spring boot?**
The important and required dependency to configure hibernate is:

1. **spring-boot-starter-data-jpa**
2. any databases

Now, provide all the database connection properties in application.properties file of your application in order to connect your JPA code with the database.